# Void Methods
## Learning Objectives
- What is a method?
- How to define a void method
- Difference between defining a method and calling it
- Difference between method parameters and arguments

## What is a method?
- A method is a code block that contains zero or more 
statements.
- A method is also referred to as a <b>function</b>
- A program causes the statements inside the method to 
be executed by <em>calling</em> the method.
- In C#, <em>every</em> executed instruction is performed 
in the context of a method.
- Methods are also useful in defining repetitive code 
in a single place and calling the method in different 
places to execute the code.
- This helps to avoid errors associated with having to 
refactor the same piece of code in several places.
- Method names should be in <em>Pascal</em> case.
- Method parameter names should be in <em>Camel</em> case.

<b><u>Important!!</b></u><br>
A method is simply a definition of some code is to be 
executed. The code is not executed until the method is called.

## Method parameters and return values
- A method can have zero or more parameters
- A method can return nothing or a value
- A method that returns nothing is called a <b>void</b> 
method.

<b>Parameter-less method that returns nothing:</b>
```
void MyMethod()
{
    // Statements here
}
```

<b>Parameter-less method that returns an `int`:</b>
```
int MyMethod()
{
    // Statements here
}
```

<b>Parameterized method that takes an `int` and returns nothing:</b>
```
void MyMethod(int myIntParameter)
{
    // Statements here
}
```

<b>Parameterized method that takes two `string` parameters and returns a string:</b>
```
string MyMethod(string firstName, string lastName)
{
    // Statements here
}
```

## Activity
- Refactor a code block with repeated functionality to 
use a method instead.

## Difference between parameters and arguments
- A parameter is the <em>definition</em> of method input(s).
- An argument is the <em>actual</em> value passed in place 
of a parameter when the method is called.
- Therefore, an argument <em>initializes</em> a parameter 
with a value.