# Switch Statements

## Learning Objectives
- What <b>switch statements</b> are.
- The <b>default</b> keyword.
- What <b>expressions</b> are.
- <b>Why</b> switch statements?

## Expression
- Any piece of code that evaluates to a value.
- It can be a variable or function call.

## Switch Statement
- A code block that allows us to execute one of 
several code branches, depending on the value 
of an <b>expression</b>.
- In a switch statement, each branch of execution 
is labelled `case`.
- A `case` can have multiple lines of code.
- Each `case` must end with a `break;` or `return` 
statement.
- If the value of a case is equal to the value of 
the expression then the case block is executed and 
the switch statement is exited.

## Expressions
- An <strong>expression</strong> is any piece of code 
that evaluates to a value.
- Examples of expression are a variable or a function or
method call.

## Why Switch Statements?
- They are shorter and more readable, once we 
learn how they work.

## The `default` Branch
- When we chain multiple `if/else` statements, 
we often have a final `else` block, which 
executes if all conditions failed.
- The `default:` block/branch in a switch 
statement serves the same purpose. 
- It is executed if the result of the result of 
the <b>expression</b> does not satisfy the conditions 
required to execute any other branch/block in the 
switch statement, i.e., does not match any of the 
cases.

## Coding Exercise 1
- Refactor the TODO app to work with a `switch` statement 
instead of `if/else`.
- Refactor the switch statement to work with both lower 
and upper case letters. <strong>Hint:</strong> An empty 
case block allows execution to fall through to the 
next case block.

## Coding Exercise 2
- Write a method that converts points to grades 
according to the following table:

|Points    |Grade      |
|:---------|:----------|
|10,9      |A          |
|8,7,6     |B          |
|5,4,3     |C          |
|2,1       |D          |
|0         |E          |

- Create a console application that takes user input
as the points, uses your method to convert the points
into the corresponding grade and prints the grade
onto the screen. Take care of invalid user input and 
follow C# conventions and coding best practices.

## Coding Exercise 3
Implement a <strong>DescribeDay</strong> method, which given a day of the week as a number, should return:

"Working day" for numbers 1 to 5

"Weekend" for numbers 6 and 7

"Invalid day number" for any other number 