# Non-void Methods
## Learning Objectives
- The <b>return</b> keyword.
- Debugging methods.
- When to remove the <b>else</b> keyword following the 
<b>if</b> without changing the code behaviour.
- How to use the <b>Quick Actions and Refactoring</b> menu.
- Code refactoring.

## Activity 1
- Write a method that takes two integers and returns their 
sum.

<b>Note</b><br>
- A method that returns a value <em>must</em> include 
a <b>return</b> statement.
- All execution paths in a non-void method must return a 
value.

## Debugging a method
- Press `F10` to step <b>over</b> a method after a breakpoint 
is hit.
- Press `F11` to step <b>into</b> a method after a breakpoint 
is hit.
- Alternatively, click the respective <b>step over</b> and 
<b>step into</b> buttons on the debugging toolbar.
- Dragging the yellow arrow on the left column allows you 
to go back to a previous line of code and re-execute the code 
from there.

## Activity 2
- Define a method that takes a `string` and returns a 
`bool`.
- The method should check the length of the input and return 
`true` if the input has <b>10</b> characters, and `false` 
otherwise.

## When to remove the `else` block after an `if` block
- A return statement <em>always</em> terminates the execution 
of a method.
- An <b>if/else</b> statement is <em>conditional</em>, meaning 
that if the `if` block executes, the `else` block will not execute.
- The `else` block is therefore redundant, and it's contents 
can be written without enclosing them inside a block.

## Activity 3 - Code refactoring
1. Refactor the method in <b>Activity 2</b> to exclude an `else` 
block.
2. Since the method returns a `bool`, refactor it to simply 
return the result of the comparison, reducing it to a 
single line method.

## Activity 4 - Method generation using Visual Studio
1. Call a non-existent method.
2. Use Studio to generate the method.
3. Implement the method to satisfy the requirements of 
your method call.

## Coding exercise
Define the <b>AbsoluteOfSum</b> method, which takes two 
int parameters, and returns the absolute value of their 
sum.

<b>Note</b><br>
Absolute value is the non-negative value of the number, 
without regard to its sign. So for example, the absolute 
value of 5 is 5, and the absolute value of -10 is 10.

```
int AbsoluteOfSum(/*Parameter definitions*/)
{
	// Code
}
```