# Parameter Types, Return Type and Static Typing in C#
## Learning Objectives
- The difference between <b>statically</b> and <b>dynamically</b> 
typed programming languages.
- Using the correct types for method parameters and return values.
- The difference between <b>runtime</b> errors and <b>compilation</b> 
errors.

## Static typing
- C# is a <b>statically typed</b> programming language.
- This means that the compiler checks for <b>type mismatches</b> as 
code is written.
- For example, assigning a `string` value to an `int` 
variable causes a compiler error. This would not cause an 
error in Python, for example.
- The advantage of static typing is that it allows us to 
spot type mismatches at compile time rather that at runtime.
- This can save time and effort.
- The downside is that the language is more rigid about types 
than dynamically typed languages.

## Runtime errors vs compile time errors
- Runtime errors occur when the application is running.
- Compile time errors occur when the application is being 
compiled by the compiler.

## Correct types for method parameters and return values
- If a method declares that it returns a value of type 
`bool` then the value it returns must be of type `bool`.
- The following method generates a compiler error:
```
bool IsNotEmptyString(string input)
{
	if(input.Length == 0)
	{
		return "Empty input.";
	}

	return false;
}
```

- Each method argument must be of a type that matches the type 
of the parameter being assigned the value.
- The following call to the method defined above generates 
a compiler error:

```
bool isInputEmpty = IsNotEmptyString(20);
```