# Quiz - Parsing a `string` into an `int`

### Question 1
What does the `int.Parse()` method do in C#?<br>
A) Converts an integer to a string.<br>
B) Converts a string representation of a number into 
an integer.<br>
C) Converts a decimal to an integer.<br>
D) Converts a floating-point number to an integer.<br>

### Question 2
What will the following program print on the 
console?

```
string ParseString(string input)
{
	int result = int.Parse(input);
	return result;
}

int parseResult = ParseString("15");
Console.WriteLine(parseResult);
```

A. 15<br>
B. "15"<br>
C. "Fifteen"<br>
D. The code will not compile.<br>

### Question 3
Given the following code, what will be the output?
```
string input = "123";
int result = int.Parse(input);
Console.WriteLine(result);
```

A) 123<br>
B) "123"<br>
C) 0<br>
D) Compile-time error<br>

### Question 4
What happens if you try to parse a string that is not 
a valid number using `int.Parse()`?

```
string input = "abc";
int result = int.Parse(input);
```

A) The string "abc" will be converted to 0.<br>
B) It will throw an Exception.<br>
C) It will return -1.<br>
D) The code will not compile.<br>

### Question 5
Given the following code, what will be the output?

```
string input = "00123";
int result = int.Parse(input);
Console.WriteLine(result);
```

A) 123<br>
B) 00123<br>
C) "00123"<br>
D) Compile-time error<br>

### Question 6
What will be the result of the following code?

```
string input = "123.45";
int result = int.Parse(input);
Console.WriteLine(result);
```

A) 123<br>
B) 123.45<br>
C) It will throw a runtime Exception.<br>
D) It will not compile.<br>

### Question 7
What will be the result of executing the following code?

```
string input = "  456  ";
int result = int.Parse(input);
Console.WriteLine(result);
```

A) It will not compile.<br>
B) It will return 0.<br>
C) It will throw an Exception at runtime.<br>
D) It will successfully parse the `string` into an `int` 
and print 456.<br>


### Question 8
Which of the following strings can be converted into an 
integer using `int.Parse()`?

A) `"123"`<br>
B) `"abc"`<br>
C) `"12.34"`<br>
D) `"one hundred"`<br>

### Question 9
Given the following code, what will the value of 
`result` be?<br>

```
string input = "567";
int result = int.Parse(input);
```

A) "567"<br>
B) 567<br>
C) 0<br>
D) The code will not work.<br>

### Question 10
Can the `int.Parse()` method convert the following 
string to an integer: `"00123"`?

A) Yes, the result will be 123.<br>
B) No, the result will still be "00123".<br>
C) No, the method does not accept numbers 
with leading zeroes.<br>
D) Yes, but the result will be "00123".<br>

### Question 11
Which of the following strings cannot be converted 
into an integer using `int.Parse()`?

A) `"42"`<br>
B) `" 42 "`<br>
C) `"10 apples"`<br>
D) `"0000"`<br>

### Question 12
What will happen if you try to use `int.Parse()` on a 
string like `"123abc"`?<br>

A) It will return 123.<br>
B) It will generate a runtime error.<br>
C) It will it will generate a compile time error.<br>
D) It will return "123abc".<br>

### Question 13
Which one of the following statements is true about 
the `int.Parse()` method?<br>

A) It only works for positive numbers.<br>
B) It can convert any type of data to an integer.<br>
C) It works for both positive and negative numbers.<br>
D) It cannot handle numbers larger than 1000.<br>

### Question 14
What does the following code print?

```
string input = "789";
Console.WriteLine(int.Parse(input) + 10);
```
A) 789<br>
B) 78910<br>
C) 799<br>
D) "799"<br>

### Question 15
What will happen in the following code?

```
string input = " ";
int result = int.Parse(input);
```

A) The variable, `result`, will have the value 0.<br>
B) The variable, `result`, will have the value " " as a string.<br>
C) It will throw a runtime error because the string is 
empty or contains only spaces.<br>
D) The variable, `result`, will have a random number.<br>

### Question 16
What value will be printed when the following code is 
executed?

```
string input = "-250";
int result = int.Parse(input);
Console.WriteLine(result);
```

A) -250<br>
B) 250<br>
C) The code will not work because the number is negative.<br>
D) 0<br>




